Use this menu item to select or deselect vendor invoices to pay in Accounts Payable > Transactions > Checks and Registers.    

After selecting invoices to pay, the remaining steps to complete the check run are first to Prepare Check Proofing and then Checks and Registers.

Accounts Payable > Transactions > Select/Deselect Invoices for Payment

Use this screen to narrow invoices to select for payment based on currency, date range, vendor, and a User 1 field or to quickly select or deselect all invoices based on the criteria entered.  



Currency. The currency defaults to the company' s Currency code. Select the appropriate currency for the check run from the list of available currencies as established through Maintain Active Currencies. Separate check runs are required for different currencies. Only those vendors with the matching currency code are available to select invoices for payment.
Note: After the currency is entered, no other entries are necessary on this first screen.

From Date/To Date. Enter a date range to select individual invoices to pay on the subsequent screen(s). Only those invoices with due dates that fall within the date range are available for selection.
Note: If a date range is not entered, the system assumes a wide date range to basically encompass all invoices. Therefore, a range of 01/01/1980 - 12/31/2099 is displayed.

Pay All Invoices. Select to mark all invoices for payment within the date range for all vendors with the matching currency.  

Deselect All Invoices. Select to deselect previously selected invoices within the date range and currency.

Vendor No./Vendor Name.  A vendor record can be entered by selecting either the vendor number or vendor name thereby limiting the selected invoices to that one vendor.

Pay All. Select to mark all invoices for payment for the specified vendor.

Deselect All. Select to deselect all invoices for the specified vendor that were previously selected for payment.

From Vendor User 1/To Vendor User 1. Enter values corresponding to the User 1 Field found on the Vendor Master > Options screen. These values are used to limit the vendors listed in the subsequent invoice selection screens.  

Pay All. Select to mark all invoices to be paid for vendors containing the specified User 1 values.

Deselect All. Select to deselect all invoices previously marked to be paid for vendors containing the specified User 1 values.

Note: Selection options may be used in conjunction with each other. For example, if a date range and a vendor are entered and Pay All is selected, only those invoices that fall within the date range for the selected vendor will be marked for payment. However, no selection criteria has to be entered. Click Ok to proceed to the subsequent screen where the first vendor that has open invoices to be paid is listed. Scroll through vendors and mark invoices individually as needed.

Display Estimated Totals for Gross, Discount, and Net. This option defaults as checked and causes accumulated totals to display on the subsequent screen for invoices selected for payment. Deselect if needed.

Navigate through Screens in Vendor Name Order. Check this option to navigate through the vendors by vendor name instead of by vendor number on the subsequent screens.

Select the Ok button to display the first of the vendors with open invoices in the Select Invoices for Payment screen. Use this screen to select or deselect invoices for payment and to verify the proper invoices are selected for payment.

Select Invoices for Payment
Hint: If invoices are not appearing correctly in this screen, run Rebuild Alternate Keys – Vendors to rebuild the vendor indexes.

Currency. The currency defaults from the prior screen.

From Date/To Date. The date range defaults from the prior screen.

Vendor No./Vendor Name.  The vendor defaults from the prior screen or the first vendor meeting the criteria from the prior screen displays.

Pay with INTL BACS ACH. This option is available and automatically selected if the vendor has International BACS information entered into their vendor master. If the Standard Accounts Payable ACH option to Require Approval of Vendor BACS Banking Information is checked, then the Pay with INTL BACS ACH option is only available if the vendor has Intl BACS information entered into their vendor master and they have been Approved. With this option checked, the invoices selected are processed electronically via International ACH. This option can be unchecked if an actual check needs to be printed for the vendor.
Note: If some invoices need to be processed via International ACH and other invoices need an actual check printed for the same Intl BACS vendor, then separate check runs must be processed.

Pay All Selected Invoices by BACS. This option is available if the option Pay with INTL BACS ACH is selected. This options marks all selected invoices to be paid via BACS.

Pay with ACH. This option is available and automatically selected if the vendor has ACH information entered into their vendor master. If the Standard Accounts Payable option to Require Approval of Vendor ACH Banking Information is checked, then the Pay with ACH option is only available if the vendor has ACH information entered into their vendor master and they have been Approved. With this option checked, the invoices selected are processed electronically via ACH. This option can be unchecked if an actual check needs to be printed for the vendor.
Note: If some invoices need to be processed via ACH and other invoices need an actual check printed for the same ACH vendor, then separate check runs need to be processed.

Note: Right click in the grid and select Show Columns to display a Pay with ACH column in the grid.

Pay All Selected Invoices by ACH. This option is available for selection if the option Pay with ACH is selected. This options marks all selected invoices to be paid via ACH.

Pay All. This option is checked if it was checked on the prior screen for the vendor. If selected, all invoices for this vendor are marked to be paid. If not checked, checking it marks all invoices to be paid.  

Deselect All.  This option is checked if it was checked on the prior screen for the vendor. If selected, no invoices for this vendor are marked to be paid. This option is cleared when an invoice for this vendor is marked to be paid.

Credit Card/Type.  If the vendor selected is a credit card vendor, these fields display the credit card name and brand the vendor is associated with through Vendor Credit Card Maintenance.

Exch Date/Exch Rate. If the vendor has a different currency code than the company' s default currency code, the most current exchange information displays from the data listed in Maintain Exchange Rates.

User 1. This field defaults with the value from the User 1 Field on the Vendor Master > Options screen.

Always Take Discount when check proofing or when checks are processed. This check box is checked for all vendors if the Standard Accounts Payable company option Always Take Discount is selected. Otherwise, it is only checked for vendors that have Always Take Discount selected within their Options screen in the Vendor master. This box serves as a notification for vendors where a discount is calculated when check proofing or when checks are processed, even if it is past the discount due date.

Invoice Grid
Unpaid invoices for the specified vendor display with the applicable invoice information.  

Invoice Number. The invoice number associated with the payable amount.

Invoice Date. The date the invoice was created.

Due Date. The date the invoice is due to be paid.

Invoice Amount. The outstanding payable amount on the invoice. This entry can be edited for credit card vendors.

Invoice Amount. (Foreign currency) If applicable, this column displays the outstanding payable amount on the invoice in the vendor' s currency.

Discount Amt. The amount of available discounts on an invoice.
Note: Select the Standard Accounts Payable option Allow Discount Amount to be modified when Selecting Invoice for Payment to allow this field to be edited.

Net Invoice. The Invoice Amount less the Discount Amount.

Post. A Y in this column indicates that the invoice has been posted and can be selected to be paid.  

Pay. This column is used to indicate whether the invoice is being paid. The available entries include:

Y = Marks the invoice to be paid.

N (or leave blank) = Marks the invoice to not be paid.

P (or p) = Marks the invoice to be partially paid and displays this screen to enter the partial payment amount:



Note:  Any discount associated with an invoice that is partially paid are not taken into account until the balance is paid in full.

I (or i) = Displays an inquiry on the invoice and provides additional details:



Screen Totals
Total amounts display in the screen' s footer:

Vendor Check Total. Displays the total to be paid to the vendor.

Total Invoice. Displays the total invoice amount for all vendors.

Total Discount. Displays the total discount amount for all vendors.

Total Net. Equals the Total Invoice less the Total Discount and is the amount to be paid.

The Total Invoice, Total Discount, and Total Net  fields calculate for all vendor invoices selected for payment if the Display Estimated Totals for Gross, Discount, and Net box was checked on the previous screen.

Use the < (left arrow) or > (right arrow ) buttons to scroll through applicable vendors to review or select/deselect invoices.

Click Save  to save invoice selections and exit.

The Add and Post buttons are only available for credit card vendors and provide additional functionality.  

Click Restart to not save any additional changes since the last save and to return to the previous screen to enter different search criteria.

Note: To completely erase all selections and start over, on the prior screen enter a wide date range, check Deselect All Invoices, and click Ok.

Credit Card Vendors
Credit card vendors are set up in the Vendor Master.

Adjusting Invoices
When selecting which invoices to pay, the Invoice Amount for an invoice can be changed to account for differences between the amount charged and the actual amount listed on the credit card statement. Once an invoice is increased or decreased, the Create A/P Invoice Batch screen displays.



Expense Account for Difference. Select a G/L expense account.

G/L Post Date. Select the post date for the transaction.

OR

Select Existing Post Date. Select an existing post date. This allows for multiple invoice adjustments to be posted on the same dates.

Click Ok to return to the prior screen and adjust more invoices if needed. Before adjusted invoices can be paid with the corrected amount.

Click the Post button to post the change made to the invoice amounts. An audit trail prints. The Business Intelligence report name and ID for the audit trail are: AP_Journals.rpt, Report ID 309. Invoice adjustments are written back to the original vendor on the invoice and to the credit card vendor.
Note: If the original invoice has already been purged, it is pulled from history back to open items.

Adding Invoices
Click the Add button to select additional invoices as paid or to add new invoices for the credit card vendor.



Vendor No. Select a vendor whose invoices were paid by the credit card vendor.

Invoice Number. Select the vendor' s invoice.

Amount Paid by Credit Card. The amount from the invoice defaults, but can be altered.

Click Save to add the invoice to the grid.

Note: Vendors and invoices on pay hold cannot be selected. If the invoice was paid by multiple credit cards, enter only the amount paid by this credit card. The remaining invoice balance can be paid through other credit card vendors.

To remove a selected invoice, double-click the invoice in the grid to make it active and click Delete. Upon exit, a message appears to confirm invoice additions since the invoice amounts paid by credit card are automatically removed from the original vendor and moved to the credit card vendor.

Click the New button to enter new invoices for the credit card vendor that may or may not be tied to a vendor in the vendor master list (i.e. miscellaneous charges, etc.). The Create A/P Invoice Batch screen displays. After entering the Select/Deselect displays where batch information can be added. Enter and save as many new invoices needed for the post date. Upon exit, the new invoices are listed for the vendor in the grid marked with a Y in the New column.

Upon exit back to the main select/deselect screen, the new invoices listed are not able to be paid until posted by clicking the Post button.   An audit trail prints for items posted.