This menu item is used to enter accounts receivable batches. The four types available are: Cash, Invoice, Credit Memo, and Adjustment.

 

Once batches are entered, select the X to exit. The batch(es) can be updated immediately through the Post Batches screen or at a later time through Update AR Batches.  An audit trail prints upon exiting.  Batches can be modified before update through Accounts Receivable > Transactions > AR Batches > Open.

 

Note: The Business Intelligence version of the Accounts Receivable journal entry audit trail is AR_Journals.rpt, Report ID 572.

 

Note: Batches that become locked and inaccessible are unlocked through GL Batches in Use.

 

Accounts Receivable > Transactions > AR Batches > New

 

The batch header screen displays for any Batch Type selected.

AR-T-AR_Batches_Header

 

Type.  The type displays the batch type selected from the prior screen.

 

User ID. The User ID of the user that created the batch.

 

Batch Number.  Enter a unique, five character, alphanumeric batch number.  The same batch number cannot be repeated in the same fiscal year.  This field automatically populates if the standard accounts receivable option Automatic Batch Numbering is on. The batch number begins with the letter R unless it has been changed from the default.

 

Post Date.  The post date defaults to today's date.  Change the date if needed. Note:  The Post Date can be locked for Invoice and Credit Memo type batches by selecting the advanced Order Entry company option Use Current Date as Invoice Batch Date.

 

Target. Enter a target total if applicable. This is the total dollar amount of items to be entered into the batch. This can be used as a safeguard to ensure all entries are made. The target field is required if the Standard Accounts Receivable option Require Input of Batch Target Amount is on. On most batch types, the customer number field is filled in with the word BATCH when the target total is reached.

Note:  If entering negative items (i.e. negative invoices), the target amount should include the amount as a positive number (i.e. Invoice 1 at 25.00 and negative Invoice 2 at -25.00 would sum to a target amount of 50.00; signs are disregarded).

Note: For Cash batches, enter the Target amount in the batch currency.

Note: For Cash batches, the system does not include discounts for the accumulated total which is something to consider for the target amount.

 

Accumulated Total. This field is an accumulated total of items entered into the batch and calculated by the system.  This field is compared to the Target field during batch input. Note: When the two fields equal, the system populates the Customer number field with the word BATCH and batch input is complete (except for Adjustment batches).

 

Branch. This field applies only if branch accounting is used. Enter a branch indicator that applies to entries in this batch. The branch indicator can be changed for individual entries for non-branch companies.

 

Click Ok to continue with entering a batch: Cash, Invoice, Credit Memo, Adjustment.

 

Cash Receipt Batches
 

Cash receipt batches are used to record the payment of invoices.

 

Note: Cash receipts for factored invoices must be handled using Accounts Receivable > Transactions > Factor Cash Receipt.  An error occurs if the user tries to apply cash to a factored invoice using a regular cash receipt batch.

 

AR-T-AR_batches-new-cash020

 

Currency. Defaults to the company currency listed in the Currency field under Standard AR company options.  The currency can be changed if needed.

Note: If the Standard Accounts Receivable option Allow Entering Payments in the Base/Company Currency is on, receipts for different currencies can be entered in the same batch if the base currency is selected. Otherwise, separate cash batches must be created for different currencies.

 

GL Account. Defaults to the cash account for the currency listed under Cash Account Maintenance. The cash account can be changed but only to a valid cash account for the currency.

 

GL Account Description. The description for the selected GL account.

 

AR-T-AR_Batches_Cash_010

 

Deposit ID - Seq. Each cash batch defaults with the Post Date entered and a sequence of 000 which is used for Bank Reconciliation purposes.  The Deposit ID – Seq may be changed if needed.

 

The batch header information populates in the screen and is grayed out.

 

Customer Number. Enter a customer number for this cash receipt or select from the look up. The Customer Name and City are retrieved from the customer master. The Currency defaults to the customer's order currency. If processing a miscellaneous cash batch, enter JE in the customer number field to create a journal entry that posts to the general ledger in the same cash batch as the typical customer cash receipts. 

Note: If using target amounts, the customer number field is filled in with the word BATCH when the target total is reached.

 

Customer Name. Select a customer name from the look up. The Customer Name and City are retrieved from the customer master. The Currency defaults to the customer's order currency.

 

Invoice. Select the invoice number to pay if only one invoice is being paid.

Note: If customer information has been previously entered, the invoices listed in the look up are filtered accordingly. Otherwise, the look up lists all open item invoices. If JE was entered in the Customer Number field, the Invoice field is not available because a miscellaneous cash receipt is not associated with a particular customer invoice.

Important:  If multiple invoices are being paid with this customer's payment, leave the Invoice field blank and select the Multiple Credits (Invoices/Crd Memos) option to select multiple invoices and to apply credit memos if needed.

 

Packing List. Select a packing list from the look up. Note: If the Standard Accounts Receivable company option, Use Shipment No as Packing List in Cash Receipt Batches is active, the packing list look up displays a combination of the sales order number/shipment sequence instead of the actual packing list number.

 

Check or Reference Number. Enter a check or other reference number. Note:  If a check or reference number is not entered, the system inputs a sequential reference number starting with X001.

 

Check Amount. The check amount defaults to the invoice total, but can be modified to account for discounts, etc. Note: If the customer has a different currency than the company's base currency, the second Check Amount field populates in the customer's currency. The company's check amount calculates based on the Exch Date and Exch Rate listed.

Note: If the Standard Accounts Receivable option Allow Entering Payments in the Base/Company Currency is on and the batch is in the base currency, both of the Check Amount fields are available for entry. Modifying the amount for the base currency updates the customer amount by factoring the exchange rate. The customer amount can be modified without affecting the base amount to allow for rounding corrections.

 

Exch Date and Exch Rate. For customers with a different currency than the company currency, the exchange date and exchange rate fields populate from Maintain Exchange Rates once the invoice is selected or an amount is entered. The exchange rate retrieved is the customer to company exchange rate. Note: If the Override Exchange Rates in Cash Receipts option is on, these fields may be modified.  The company check amount recalculates if the exchange rate is changed. The rate reflects the customer's currency to the company's currency and the symbols also display. Note: If the Standard Accounts Receivable option Allow Entering Payments in the Base/Company Currency is on, both of these fields are available for edit. Additionally, a label displays such as CAD TO USD which indicates the conversion of the customer currency to the base currency.

 

Note: For partial payment cash receipts, if the Override Exchange Rates in Cash Receipts option is on, a variance is created by comparing the original company amount to the updated calculated company amount from the exchange rate. The last payment is determined and the variance is calculated using the original net amount from the company and comparing it to the updated calculated company amount. A payment is determined complete when no variance remains.

 

Once all information is entered, select the appropriate option:

Single Credit Entry. Choose this option when the cash receipt is for one invoice but a discount needs to be applied or to edit the debit account and enter single or multiple credit accounts. Note:  For this selection, the journal entry shows DEBIT as the invoice number for the debit line(s) when the batch is opened.  Take precaution not to delete all DEBIT lines with the Delete Invoice option; use Delete Line as necessary. This is the best option for recording a miscellaneous cash receipt transaction.

Multiple Credits (Invoices/Crd Memos). Choose this option when the cash receipt is applied to multiple invoices and credit memos. Note:  For this selection, the journal entry shows DEBIT as the invoice number for the debit line(s) when the batch is opened. Take precaution not to delete all DEBIT lines with the Delete Invoice option; use Delete Line as necessary.

Single Entry to Standard Accounts. Choose this option when the cash receipt is for one invoice "paid in full" and to automatically credit the default Accounts Receivable account under the Standard company options Accounts Receivable Tables > Account Maintenance – Accts Receivable and debit the default Cash account located in Cash Account Maintenance.

 

 

Single Credit Entry

 

Single Credit Entry. Choose this option when the cash receipt is for one invoice but a discount needs to be applied or to edit the debit account and enter single or multiple credit accounts. Enter the Check or Reference Number, the Invoice number, and the Check Amount. Select Ok to begin processing the cash receipt.

AR-T-AR_batches-new-cash050

 

 

A different GL Account for the credit entry from the look up can be selected, if necessary. Select Ok and the system displays:

AR-T-AR_batches-new-cash060

 

If the cash receipt amount is for the full invoice amount, the system defaults the Type to Y; if the cash receipt is for a partial payment the Type is P. If the customer is taking an allowable discount on the invoice according to the Terms of that invoice, although an amount less than the full invoice amount was entered, a Y is entered in the Type column and the system calculates and return the corresponding Apply Amt and Discount.

 

Even with a P in the Type column, a discount amount can be entered if the customer is taking a discount that the system would not recognize as allowable (being past the allowable date according to the Terms of the invoice), but a company decision was made to allow the discount. Note: If the Type column was a P, after the amount of the discount is manually entered in the Discount column, the system changes the Type from P to Y.

 

Check Discount Column Editable to enter discounts in the discount column. Changes cannot be made to the Discount column if this box is unselected.

 

Modify the Apply Amount and Discount amount as necessary. The Balance column displays the balance remaining due on the invoice.

 

VAT Applied. If the Create Offsetting Tax Journal Entries (AR) option is selected and the customer is set up with VAT, this column displays the amount to debit the VAT Output Liability (AR) account which offsets what was posted during invoicing. The same amount is credited against the Taxes Owed to the Government (AR) account to track the liability.

 

If a change is made on the Multiple Credits screen (example: entered a discount), after selecting Ok the system opens the Enter Multiple Debits screen. If no changes were made on the Multiple Credits screen, the Single Debit or Multiple Debits prompt displays. If Single Debit was chosen, a screen appears that allows changing the default cash account. If Multiple Debits was chosen, the system displays:

AR-T-AR_batches-new-cash070

 

Edit the existing lines and/or enter the Amount and GL Account to debit and select Save. Continue entering amounts and accounts until the Total Debits are balanced to the Total Entered. Select Ok.

 

After entering debits (single or multiple), the following screen appears for a review of the debit and credit entries for the transaction.

AR-T-AR_batches-new-cash080

 

Select Reject to cancel the Debit and Credit entries entered at this point. Select Modify to edit an entry. Select to modify Debits or Credits and click Ok. The system returns to the appropriate screen to adjust the amounts and accounts if necessary. When satisfied with the entry and the Total Debits equal the Total Credits, select Accept.

 

The system returns to the Cash Receipts Batch Data screen where the user can enter additional cash receipts to the batch.

 

Multiple Credits (Invoices/Credit Memos)

 

Multiple Credits (Invoices/Crd Memos). Choose this option when the cash receipt is to be applied to multiple invoices and credit memos.

 

Enter the Check or Ref Number.

Note: Since the cash receipt is applied to multiple invoices/credit memos, the Invoice field should be left blank; invoices are selected on a subsequent screen.

 

Enter the amount of the cash receipt in the Check Amt field. Select Ok to process the cash receipt.

AR-T-AR_batches-new-cash050

 

The system displays the default account to credit from the Standard company options Accounts Receivable Tables > Account Maintenance - Accts Receivable. Select a different GL Account if necessary. Select Save and the system displays:

AR-T-AR_batches-new-cash110

 

The system lists the unpaid invoices for the customer on screen. Invoices can be located by scrolling through the invoice list or selecting the invoice with the Invoice look up or the Packing List look up. If an entry is selected with one of the look ups, the system  jumps to the corresponding invoice. Note: The look ups list all invoices in the open items file whether they have been paid or not. Therefore, if an entry selected from a look up relates to an invoice that has already been paid, the system does not jump to that invoice because it is not listed on screen.

 

Enter a Y in the Type column to include the full invoice amount and the system moves the invoice/credit memo amount to the Apply Amt column. If a customer is taking an allowable discount on an invoice according to the Terms of that invoice, a Y can be entered in the Type column and the system calculates and returns the corresponding Apply Amt and Discount.

 

Enter a P in the Type column to make a partial payment toward an invoice. Even with a P in the Type column, a discount amount can be entered if the customer is taking a discount that the system would not recognize as allowable (being past the allowable date according to the Terms of the invoice), but a company decision was made to allow the discount. Note: If a P was entered in the Type field to allow a discount, the system changes the Type from P to Y after the amount of the discount is entered into the Discount column.

 

Select the Add button to enter another Invoice to include in this transaction if needed.

 

When all invoices are added and the Total Cash Received balances to the Total Entered, the system displays a Balanced message. Select Save to continue.

 

At this point, the processing proceeds as described above for Single Credit Entry.

 

 

Single Entry to Standard Accounts

 

Single Entry to Standard Accounts. Choose this option when the cash receipt is for one invoice "paid in full" and to automatically credit the default Accounts Receivable account established in the Accounts Receivable Table Standard Options and debit the default Cash account established in Cash Account Maintenance.

 

Enter the Check or Reference Number, the Invoice number, and the Check Amount. Select Ok to process the cash receipt. Since this entry debits and credits default accounts, no additional screens appear.

 

Continue maintaining the cash receipts batch in this manner. If using target amounts, the customer number changes to BATCH when the target amount is reached. If not using a target amount, exit the batch at any time.

 

Invoice Batches
 

Invoice batches are used to enter an invoice directly into the system and are typically only used for startup.  In addition, this batch type does not allow an actual invoice to be printed.  Invoices are normally processed through Order Entry > Transactions > Invoicing.

AR-T-AR_Batches_Invoice_010

 

Customer.  Enter the customer or select the customer from either the customer number look up or the customer name look up. Note: If using target amounts, the customer number field is filled in with the word BATCH when the target total is reached

 

Bill To Address.  The name and address defaults from the customer master Bill To Address section once a customer is selected.

 

Currency.  The currency defaults from the customer master Currency field.

 

Invoice Number.  Enter the invoice number; alphanumeric characters are allowed.

 

Customer PO.  Enter the customer purchase order number if needed.  This field is informational only.

 

Invoice Date.  The invoice date defaults to the Post Date; change the date if necessary.  This date determines how the invoice will be aged for payment and is also used to retrieve the correct exchange rate for this invoice if applicable. Note: The Invoice Date can be locked for Invoice and Credit Memo type batches by selecting the advanced Order Entry company option Use Current Date as Invoice Batch Date.

 

Taxable.  Select this box if the invoice is taxable.  This field defaults to checked if the customer has a tax code entered under the Taxes button on the customer master.  It can be unchecked if needed.  Checking this box activates the related tax fields as well as the Taxes button on the invoice screen to view and/or modify tax information.

 

VAT Rule.  This field is activated if the taxable checkbox is checked and the company option to Use VAT Features is on.  This field is used for VAT tax purposes.  A VAT Rule defaults if one is listed for the customer under the VAT button under customer options.  The rule may be changed if needed.

 

VAT Exempt.  This field is informational only and is populated if the VAT Rule selected is VAT exempt.

 

Cost.  Enter the cost associated with the order if needed (i.e. cost of inventory). This field is informational only and does not carry over to the open items record.

 

Exchange Fields:

 

The system uses these fields for calculations if the customer has a different currency code than the company's currency code.

 

Exchange Date.  Based on the invoice date, the system uses the most recent exchange date information from the Maintain Exchange Rates table to process currency calculations. The exchange date used is displayed and cannot be changed.

 

Exchange Rate. The exchange rate used is based on the exchange date and cannot be modified.

 

Invoice Amount Information:

 

The system calculates an additional row of invoice information based on the exchange date/rate for customers that have a different currency code than the company's currency code. The invoice amount can be entered into either row.

 

Invoice Amount.  Enter the amount of the invoice.

 

Amount To Tax.  If the invoice is taxable, the amount subject to tax defaults from the invoice amount, but can be changed if a portion of the invoice is not taxable.

 

Tax. If the invoice is taxable, the system calculates the tax based on the tax codes listed for the customer under the Taxes button on the customer master and the Amount To Tax field and cannot be modified from this field. To see details of the calculated tax amount and/or to change the tax codes to change the tax amount, click the Taxes button on screen.

 

Retention.  Retention may be calculated depending on the retention method, any limitations, and if the invoice is taxable with VAT tax codes marked as VAT Retention Applies.  Click the Taxes button to see details of the calculated retention amount and/or to change the tax codes to change the retention amount.

 

Taxable Amount. If the invoice is taxable, this amount represents the total invoice amount including any tax.

 

Sales Rep.  The sales representative defaults from the Sales Rep field on the customer master, but may be changed for the invoice if needed.

 

Branch.  The branch code defaults from the Branch field on the customer master, but may be changed for the invoice if needed.  For credit memo and adjustment batches, the branch code defaults to the code tied to the selected invoice. Note:  This field is not applicable for companies using branch processing.

 

Area.  The area code defaults from the Area field on the customer master, but may be changed for the invoice if needed.

 

State.  This field is informational only and is recorded with the invoice and carries over to certain screens (i.e. Accounts Receivable > File > Maintain Open AR).  In addition, some non-branch customers may use the state field (along with the branch and area fields) for grouping purposes.

 

Discount Section:

 

This section is used for due date and discount purposes. The discount is automatically calculated by the system on the invoice amount (excluding taxes) if the terms code entered for the invoice includes a discount percentage.  The discount is only calculated and is not posted at the time of entering the invoice. The discount applies and posts at the time of payment of the invoice if the invoice is paid by the discount due date.

 

Override.  Typically the system calculates any applicable discount and recalculates for any freight charges entered.  If the override checkbox is checked, the system will not recalculate the discount based on freight charges.

 

Freight.  This field is used to enter the amount of freight included in the invoice and the system will reduce the discount amount based on the freight.  This is to not allow a discount on freight charges. Note:  The freight charges entered are for discount purposes only and will not automatically post to a different general ledger account.

 

Discount.  The discount is calculated by the system on the Invoice Amount and based on the Terms Code entered for the invoice and if that terms code involves a discount.  The discount amount may be manually overridden if needed.

 

Terms Code.  The terms code defaults to the code listed in the Terms field on the customer master and is used to calculate the invoice due date and any discount amount and discount due date.  This code may be changed if needed and the system recalculates the invoice due date and any applicable discount amount and discount due date.

 

Invoice Due Date.  The invoice due date is calculated based on the invoice date and the Terms Code entered for the invoice.

 

Discount Due Date.  The discount due date is calculated based on the invoice date and the Terms Code entered for the invoice. The date defaults to today's date if a discount is not involved.

 

Select one of the following:

 

Single Debit Entry.  This option is used to override the single default debit account; the Accounts Receivable account from company options.  In addition, this option allows for overriding the default credit account (the Normal GL Account from the customer master or the Sales account from company options) or for entering multiple credits (i.e. if an amount needs to be split between multiple sales accounts). Note:  The maximum number of credit accounts that can be used to split the invoice amount is ten.

 

Multiple Debit Entries.  This option is used for recording the invoice amount to multiple debit accounts (i.e. if a company splits invoices among several accounts receivable accounts).  In addition, this option allows for overriding the default credit account (the Normal GL Account from the customer master or the Sales account from company options) or for entering multiple credits (i.e. if an amount needs to be split between multiple sales accounts). Note:  The maximum number of credit accounts that can be used to split the invoice amount is ten.

 

Single Entry to Standard Accts.  This option automatically debits the default Accounts Receivable account (Account Code 1) listed in the company options and credits the default account listed in the Normal GL Account field on the customer master. There are no additional screens to change/add general ledger accounts as mentioned for the other two options listed above. Note: If the customer does not have a Normal GL Account defined, the system will credit the default Sales account listed in the company options.

Save

 

Click Save to save the invoice.  Depending on the option selected, additional screens may appear to change/add general ledger accounts.  Add additional invoices to the batch if needed.

Taxes

 

This button is only available if the invoice is marked as Taxable.  Click the Taxes button to review the tax information for the invoice and make modifications if needed.

 

Important:  Refer to the Taxes button on the customer master for more information on this screen.  Differences will be detailed below.

 

AR-T-AR_Batches_Invoice_Taxes

 

Taxable.  This checkbox defaults to checked if the invoice is marked as Taxable.  It cannot be unchecked from this screen.

 

The screen outlines the calculated Tax Amount for each Tax Authority based on the Taxable portion of the invoice (the amount from the Amount to Tax field).  A Total Tax is listed at the bottom.

 

Click the Retention button to view any calculated retention amount for VAT tax codes that include a retention option. Note: If retention is not calculated/displayed on the invoice screen or posted due to an invoice limit amount, the calculated retention information is available to view through the Taxes button.

 

AR-T-AR_Batches_Invoice_Taxes_Retention

 

The screen displays the Retention Type and Retention Percent and shows the calculated Retention Amount.

Clear

 

Click Clear to clear the invoice information.

Cancel

 

Click Cancel to cancel the batch and delete any invoice information entered.

 

Credit Memo Batches
 

Credit memo batches in Accounts Receivable are typically only used for startup and this batch type does not allow an actual credit memo to be printed.  Credit memos are normally entered through Quality > Transactions > RMA or Shipping and Receiving > Transactions > RMA.

 

Refer to the Invoice batch type for definitions for the fields on this screen; differences are noted below.

 

AR-T-AR_Batches_CreditMemo

 

Credit Memo.  Enter the credit memo number.  This field is informational only.

 

To process a credit memo, select a Customer and Invoice Number.  The majority of the invoice information populates the screen. Note:  A standalone credit memo (not tied to an invoice number) may be entered.

 

Make any necessary changes for the credit memo. Note:  Do not enter a negative invoice amount.  Credit memos are processed as a credit against the Accounts Receivable account.

 

Select one of the following:

 

Single Debit Entry. This option is used to override the single default debit account; the Normal GL Account from the customer master or the Sales account from company options.  In addition, this option allows for overriding the default credit account (the Accounts Receivable account from company options) or for entering multiple credits. Note: The default accounts shown on screen are not necessarily the accounts that were posted to when the invoice was originally created.

 

Multiple Debit Entries. This option is used for recording the credit memo amount to multiple debit accounts (i.e. reversal of multiple sales accounts). In addition, this option allows for overriding the default credit account (the Accounts Receivable account from company options) or for entering multiple credits. Note: The default accounts shown on screen are not necessarily the accounts that were posted to when the invoice was originally created.

 

Single Entry to Standard Accts.  This option will automatically credit the default Accounts Receivable account (Account Code 1) listed in the company options and debit the default account listed in the Normal GL Account field on the customer master.  There are no additional screens in which to change/add general ledger accounts as mentioned for the other two options listed above. Note: If the customer does not have a Normal GL Account defined, the system will debit the default Sales account listed in the company options.

 

Select Save. Depending on the option selected, additional screens may display to change/add general ledger accounts.  Add additional credit memos to the batch if needed.

 

Adjustment Batches
 

Adjustment batches are used to increase or decrease receivables by the adjustment amount.  Adjustments are typically used to change an invoice if a customer underpays by a small amount (i.e. penny, dollar) or to write off invoices that will never be paid (bad debts).  Adjustment changes do not affect sales analysis (history), but remove amounts off the aging reports.

 

Refer to the Invoice batch type for definitions for the fields on this screen.

 

AR-T-AR_Batches_Adjustment

 

To process an adjustment, select a Customer Number and Invoice Number. The customer and invoice information populates the screen. If needed, change the Amount to the amount of the adjustment.

Important: Enter the amount as a positive number.

 

Hint: The Customer PO field can be used to enter a note about the adjustment (i.e. write off, underpaid, etc.).

 

Select either Adjustment Increases Receivables or Adjustment Reduces Receivables.

 

Click Save to continue.

AR-T-AR_Batches_Adjustment_020

 

Enter the GL Account(s) to debit or credit depending on if reducing or increasing the receivable and click Save.  The system defaults the account to the customer's Normal GL Account or the default Sales account in company options if a normal GL account does not exist.  Enter additional accounts/amounts as needed until the Total Entered equals the Invoice Total (the amount of the adjustment).  

 

Important:  Do not enter the Accounts Receivable account.  The system automatically debits or credits the accounts receivable account that the invoice was originally posted to depending on if increasing or reducing receivables. Note:  If the invoice was posted to multiple accounts receivable accounts, the system posts to the first one recorded in the journal entry.

 

Click Ok to continue.  Enter additional adjustments as needed.

 

 